README.md, before:

# State Estimation

Waterloo Rocketry's state estimator is a tool used to determine information about the state of our rocket at any point in flight.

### Installation Requirements

Python 3.6 or newer is required to run the project.

It is recommended that a virtual environment be used to house the Python packages for this project. 
This can be installed through a Windows terminal with the following:
```
py -m pip install --user virtualenv
py -m venv venv
.\venv\Scripts\activate
```
This can be installed in bash terminal with the following:
```bash
python3 -m pip install --user virtualenv
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```
Once in the virtual environment, the required Python packages can be installed with `pip`:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
As a side note, to exit the virtual environment when needed:
```
deactivate
```
### Usage
To generate a data set, run `data_generator.py` which will prompt for user input.
This is the message output on each run of `data_generator.py`:
```
Enter a total mass, thrust, burn time, and noise params (pressure, temperature, acceleration, gyro, and magnetic noise). Please separate each value with a space:
```
And this is an example user input:
```
100 0,0,20000 60 1 1 1 1 1
```
Where `100` is the total mass of the rocket (in kilograms), `0,0,20000` is the thrust generated by the rocket ([x,y,z] in newtons), `60` is the burn time (in seconds), and `1 1 1 1 1` is the sensor noise parameters (currently unused).

This will generate 2 files: `/generated_files/ground_truth.txt` and `/generated_files/sensor_data.txt` which house the generated data sets for the flight profile.

### Unit Tests
The project also has unit tests stored in the `/tests` directory. To run and check these tests, run this command in a terminal (in the project directory):
```
py.test
```
For additional information about the `py.test` package and how to used it, check out their [documentation](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/).

Commit message:

Add contributions section to README
Additionally, this commit adds a script for formatting the entire codebase to follow the PEP 8 style guide.

README.md, after:

# State Estimation

Waterloo Rocketry's state estimator is a tool used to determine information about the state of our rocket at any point in flight.

### Installation Requirements

Python 3.6 or newer is required to run the project.

It is recommended that a virtual environment be used to house the Python packages for this project. 
This can be installed through a Windows terminal with the following:
```
py -m pip install --user virtualenv
py -m venv venv
.\venv\Scripts\activate
```
This can be installed in bash terminal with the following:
```bash
python3 -m pip install --user virtualenv
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```
Once in the virtual environment, the required Python packages can be installed with `pip`:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
As a side note, to exit the virtual environment when needed:
```
deactivate
```
### Usage
To generate a data set, run `data_generator.py` which will prompt for user input.
This is the message output on each run of `data_generator.py`:
```
Enter a total mass, thrust, burn time, and noise params (pressure, temperature, acceleration, gyro, and magnetic noise). Please separate each value with a space:
```
And this is an example user input:
```
100 0,0,20000 60 1 1 1 1 1
```
Where `100` is the total mass of the rocket (in kilograms), `0,0,20000` is the thrust generated by the rocket ([x,y,z] in newtons), `60` is the burn time (in seconds), and `1 1 1 1 1` is the sensor noise parameters (currently unused).

This will generate 2 files: `/generated_files/ground_truth.txt` and `/generated_files/sensor_data.txt` which house the generated data sets for the flight profile.

### Unit Tests
The project has unit tests stored in the `/tests` directory. To run and check these tests, run this command in a terminal (in the project directory):
```
py.test
```
For additional information about the `py.test` package and how to used it, check out their [documentation](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/).

### Contributing to the Project
New contributors are always welcome! Feel free to assign yourself to any issues marked with `good first issue`. If you see an issue that is not listed but needs addressing, please open an issue and discuss what you would like to change. If you are contributing to the project, make sure unit tests are written or updated to address your contributions. 

Additionally, be sure to run the `format.sh` script after adding or making changes to the project's codebase to ensure that the new code is properly formatted!
